[Music]
so I've just opened blender and the
default 3D viewport layout I'm going to
click and drag to select everything and
press X to delete it and right away I'm
going to hop over to my geometry nodes
workspace and I'm not going to exit out
of this left window yet I'm going to
change it over to my video sequencer
we're going to be creating an audio
visual so I want to add sound to this
I'll make sure I'm at the first keyframe
add sound and the default settings are
just fine add a sound strip now if we
zoom out on our timeline we can see how
long our song is so when I zoom in I can
see
3168 so I'm going to right click on this
panel right here and create a horizontal
split put my timeline in
and then I can change the length of my
animation to Executive three one six
eight there we go it's as long as this
on now I can close this window I'll
right click
join areas and X this one out so I've
got the three panels we'll be using for
our 3D model now and just to double
check when you press play you should be
able to hear the song
there we go so to start off in our
geometry node editor we need some
geometry up in our 3D viewport I'm just
going to add a plane now we can click
new in our geometry nodes Editor to
start modifying the plane and we
actually don't want a plane we're going
to want a cube and it's a curve so I'm
going to delete that group input so that
deleted our plane in our geometry nodes
editor now we're going to be adding a
mesh primitive Cube
and place that the size I'm going to
click and drag across all three and
press 2 to scale it up to 2 meters and
we can plug that into our geometry and
now we've got our Cube
2 meters squared
and then we're also going to be adding a
circle so I shift a to search and you
can tap s to search and type in
Circle we'll want curved Circle what we
want to do in this animation is instance
the cube on the curve and animate the
transformation as the cube moves around
the curve so we're going to get an
instance on points I'll shift a to
search for instance and we don't want to
instance our Cube we're going to be
using the curve as the points and then
our Cube will be our instance
so now it's placed a cube along this
curve that we've created and we can
change the number of Cubes by the
resolution of points on the curve down
to only three cubes and upwards of a
hundred and the size of this entire
circle with the radius so now you can
see that Circle next we want to give our
Cube more geometry and more vertices so
that it can deform to the music so we're
going to add a subdivision surface
and increase the levels to four for now
now we want what we want to do is Orient
the mesh so that they all would be
scaling radially if I looked down at
this we want it to be like rays of the
Sun not like parallel lines so we can do
that by aligning the Euler to Vector the
data search for a line and I'm going to
place it down to the side here and use
it as the rotation for my instance
and align it to the Y and then as the
vector we want to use our current a
search for a curve tangent
by the tangent or vector so now based on
our Factor we can control
the orientation of these pieces and if
we change the axis obviously the axis of
rotation so this is exactly what we want
it's radial like this uh when I increase
the factor to one so now we want to
animate the rotation of these objects
about the curve over time so we'll use a
scene time node to animate our curve
with the gmath nodes
so scene time and this will give us the
seconds and animate our geometry
modifier over time
and what we're going to be animating
with this is the rotation of our
instance so search notation
rotate instances and I'll be placing
that after our instance on points and
then our scene time will be plugged into
our rotation so if I press play you'll
see it rotate over time
so obviously that's not the music that's
just a Content modification of the
geometry rotation over time it's really
cool is using math you can really modify
how this rotation appears so if we add a
few math nodes
change this to multiply and maybe even
shift d duplicate it add this to divide
press play
you can see that slows it down if we
multiply add we speed it up
[Music]
so you can do some really crazy stuff
just with switching back and forth the
speed of your rotation
and then changing the value of what it's
multiplying or dividing by so I'll just
keep those at zero for now while we're
working
and what can make this really cool is
also using an index to input your value
so we can search for an index
plug this into our value
so then it changes the rate and the
rotation of different objects throughout
the entire animation makes it much more
visually interesting
and if you want go in and even add
another math node in between here get
really creative
and before we get any farther remember
to say we should have saved a lot sooner
the last thing I want to do to modify
the rotation is to add a combine x y z
to be able to change the axis yet again
that this is rotating around so this is
now what we want we've isolated it on
this x-axis here we can always change it
to Y indexing staying radial and it's
rotating exactly like we want and you
can change the appearance of that by
changing X or Y or even both
and Y
so one more step is to subdivide your
Cube we want to add a subdivision
surface
to our Cube so it deforms and maybe take
the levels up to four then we're going
to be animating the size of our Cube and
the rotation to the music so I'm going
to use another combined x y z
and then off my X Y and Z I'll just plug
in a few values that I'll keep for
making its value
this will now be keyframe to the song
I'll shift e to duplicate
as this will and you can even plug this
value into maybe X and then Y and Z so
you can see it's zero right now
so the transformation of these little
objects will now happen to the music
down here let's use a mix RGB to combine
our music with the math as well and it's
RGB and drop it into our scene time to
combine it with the scene time that's
already being implied and then we can
plug in a value data search value
into the second color so this mix will
be combining depending on the factor the
transformation of our rotation of our
objects we'll see once it's moving so
I'm going to press play and you'll see
the movements of the objects and then as
I change this factor and mix it with
this other value the rotational change
so when I increase and decrease this
value it's being mixed with my scene
time node depending on this factor I can
reduce how much they're mixed and it
only takes in color one or it can
increase and it'll only take in color
two
that one more item I'm going to add is
actually off of my combine x y z node
I'm going to duplicate this value over
here and then I'll plug it into my X
now I'm going to use this value of my
map
plug it into my y That's the rotation
effect that I'll be looking for and so
far these are rotating exactly about our
curve that we've created but to change
your pivot point will really alter how
this animation appears so if I click and
drag on my X just slightly
click and drag on my y I see now when
you watch the objects rotate it's a lot
more Wild
remember we can always go back to our
curve and increase the vertices count on
our curve at the resolution so way more
objects appear so with my resolution at
something like a hundred you can see how
cool that looks now and you can always
change your radius of your overall
sphere if you'd like now when we press
play
foreign
or your ad or your device we're starting
with the Divide let's start with the
multiply so it's a lot faster
just for a different effect change
around your math nodes and then let's
see
[Music]
and we get that Dynamic spiraling effect
all that spiral changes throughout the
animation because it's building off of
the index that's why we inserted this
index down here into the math and if you
don't like that spiral you can change
your offset point
X and Y and then maybe change your
subdivision or your resolution of your
curve increase it a bunch I'm at 500 now
all right there's our geometry node tree
now let's get it animated to music so
let's start from left to right I'm just
going to go to this value select my
geometry node object the value hit I
and I need to go to Vertical split and
go to My Graph editor
so with all of those objects selected
I'm at frame zero big sound to F curve T
bakes on to F curve let's start with
zero to 500 and reduce our attack time
as far as we can big sound at the curves
so there's our first step we've got that
first value baked into our F curve and
you can expand your geometry node object
and click on that value then within our
graph editors you see this tiny window
over here modifiers so we can modify the
f-curve with an envelope modifier
if we add a control point you can click
and drag to change the amount of noise
in the curve more or less submit reduce
it or make it much more chaotic so now
this is finally a movement that's being
mapped to Our Song throughout the entire
song and you can see it's loud and then
the song ends so that's the first
movement that we've animated to our
music
if we give it a little test we can see
so our object is flat right now because
we're using the value of our x-axis
basically at zero if we zoom in in our
graph editor
for way down at the minimal level 0.2
for scale and then it'll be up to almost
five so this value will constantly
change throughout the song
[Music]
there we go so the First Transformation
of our little cube is happening so let's
repeat that now for everywhere we placed
a value so let's go back to keyframe 0
select this other value hovering over it
and press I
go to our graph editor key big sound to
F curves and this time I'm going to go
from a minimum of 500 to maximum of 1500
big sound to add curves so we can see
it's a different frequency now that's
affecting our object and it's actually
at zero both of these values are at zero
at the beginning of the song so our
object disappeared as soon as I scrub
forward in our timeline that's up little
objects begin to pulse with the music so
now we can transform it with X or the Y
and Z axis independently
let's add a modifier into this sound
curve envelope modifier add a control
point so now we can change how each of
these how it responds on each of these
axes
so you can make it a flat disc by maxing
it out in one direction or keep them
pretty round all right we're getting
there let's work our way down to our
other value this one will be mixing with
that overall rotation animation right
keyframe zero value selected over over
press I then graph editor key big sound
to F curves
and again let's make this respond to a
different frequency from 1500 to 8 000.
so this will actually be manipulating
how the rotation happens such overall
transformation of U and we can reduce
that if it looks too crazy with our
Factor so this mix will give us control
of that
so right now we're mostly just using our
scene time to animate it it'll be a
steady second by second count but if we
increase our Factor it'll only be
relying on the music for that value then
so it'll go just back and forth if we
have a factor of one
and that isn't very cool so that's why
we use this mix to reduce it slightly so
it moves steadily throughout the entire
video but you still see it react to the
music and jiggle back and forth when the
bass hits for example
foreign
so that's looking pretty sweet and you
can see when we started zero we kept all
those Transformations at the start of
the song at zero so it's kind of cool
that our curve starts at the single
Circle and then building off of the
index of the rotation and the scene time
it actually changes throughout the
entire animation it'll never be quite
the same before we go let's add an
envelope modifier did this F curve as
well and you can see even by
manipulating the envelope of going
zero or not this can create a really
cool effect I'll just keep it right
there
we're almost there one more value to
keyframe let's go back to zero object
value selected
press I and open your graph editor the
same thing the X sound to F curve one
more let's go from eight thousand to
fifteen thousand and this one of the big
effects but if we use that envelope
modifier and add our control point
we can raise and lower this Min and max
value so that F curve is more noisy so
you can kind of see that the rotation
and the speed that it's traveling around
overall is reacting to the music just
one more little detail that catches your
eye
foreign
now we're ready to render this so all we
need is a single material I'm going to
get one more nose search for set
material node and it's going to be super
simple if we go over into our material
properties and add a new material
only thing I'm going to do is increase
my metallic all the way up and if we go
over to our rendered view I'm going to
be using EV for this rendering we're
going to need to change the background
of our scene in our world properties
other take my background to Black then
I'm going to add a single light shift
data search for an area light GE to grab
scale it up and then increase the power
of our light and our light properties to
ten thousand so you can see it
highlighting that little ring of objects
now now we can grab our light and shift
d to D duplicate R to rotate and I'll
change the color this light make it
something eye-catching like pink and I'm
going to change the shape of both of
these lights to a disk because you're
going to be seeing these lights in the
reflection I want them to be a disc
shape you're totally not done yet you
need to apply your material first there
we go so now we've got our reflective
material applied don't forget go back
and tweak that speed of your Rotation by
tweaking The Divide so now it'll happen
a lot slower
so this is kind of a cool effect that it
like it starts as a circle and then over
time it forms that spiral tortoise
[Music]
so that's why we used all this math and
mixing with our scene time so we can
create that cool effect of
transformation starting as a single ring
turning into this 3D Taurus and
throughout the entire animation reacting
to the music keep tweaking with this
math and you'll create a cooler effect
than I've been able to reach here now to
render out our scene I'm going to use a
two 3D viewports I'm going to change
this to viewport pivot around and then
I'll use this one for looking through my
camera
so I'm going to press one on the number
pad to look exactly straight and shift 8
add a camera
added that camera looking perfectly
along the y-axis that was why I was
looking straight but number one now in
this view I'm going to press zero to
look in my camera
and and in my view panel I'm going to
click camera to view so now we're
controlling the location of our camera
pivoting around and before you place it
maybe scrub through your animation and
see if you like that composition here we
go and I'll press n in this view uncheck
camera review and leave my camera in
that spot
so this will be my final rendered View
and I think I actually want another
light I'm going to shift the heat
duplicate place it on the other side and
rotate and make it a color that's a
little bit opposite on the Spectrum so
there's green on one side and some pink
on the other now for our output
properties I'm going to be using EV but
I might turn up my rendering sample to
something 900 and we'll go to our little
printer icon and change the output
location
and we want to change our file format to
FF and Peg video and you have a choice
here if you expand your encoding you
could stay with matroska and that's
safest to export at MKV afterwards you
need to re-mox your file to change the
file format but mkvs can stop halfway
through and the file is less prone to
correcting or you can export straight to
MP4 using this mpeg-4 encoding and then
change your output quality to
perceptually lossless and then you want
to keep your audio in the video right
now you have no audio so you need to
select AAC and those settings are okay
for audio channels
heat on that stereo so now you're set to
export you have your output location you
could change your resolution to 4K for
example
3840 by 2160 and this will output a 4K
animation now but that'll just take more
time for your computer so then I'll just
go I'll save one more time before I
click render always and then render
animation
[Music]
foreign
[Applause]